I ran some scripts to estimate power numbers and I am not sure what to
make of it.

1. I haven't factored in Wifi idle power of ~250 mw because we don't
know exactly how long the phones were on. Maybe we can look at the
logs for that. I am not sure how to fit that in and should we ?

2, The Wifi Rx numbers were negative because of the negative
intercept. I guess we can safely assume that the intercept is zero for
Wifi Rx ? I am not sure how else to make physical sense out of it. I
have set it to zero for now.

3. W/o idle power  and assuming none of the 4g packets incur a tail
cost : DIPLOMA does 3x worse than CCloud

4. W/o idle power and assuming the tail is incurred for every packet
of 4G: DIPLOMA does 2x BETTER than CCloud.  Reality is somewhere
between 3 and 4 and depends on how you apportion the tail among other
4G apps in the system. If this is the only app and requests are more
than 10 seconds apart there is a tail energy on each access. I am not
sure quantitatively where a realistic evaluation should be (closer to
the all tails or closer to the no tails ?)

5. The 4g regressions are pretty bad, but for lack of a better
intuitive model, I fit a straight line to them anyway. On an unrelated
note, I am guessing the expts were done to make sure tails from one
run didn't interfere with the next.

Scripts and new results enclosed (at the end of
resultsUpdatedWithPower.txt ). There are two scripts one for byte
counting and one for power. The Power script will take 4 minutes to
run thanks to doing shell script calculations. If we can review the
results first between ourselves I can then mail them out to Li
Shiuan.There is also a png file with a screenshot of all regressions.

Btw, I have recomputed the numbers for the total amount of cloud bytes
consumed given that we have fresh 4G logs.
