Anirudh:

First to fill in Niket on this, we prototyped a simple food spotting
application on DIPLOMA over 4G phones (The new Galaxy Notes). Jason
built some power models using the Monsoon power meter and we got some
power measurements on our trace data using that. Here's the summary.
It's a little detailed but it hopefully is clear.

In our 4G experiments, we had people moving around too frequently and
presumably the non leaders could not hear the leaders of the region.
This meant they would not hear 3 consecutive leader heart beats, time
out, go and ask the cloud to see if they could now become leader. But
the cloud still keeps getting hearbeats from the actual leader of the
region. So the cloud rejects all these requests. To enable faster
re-election in case a leader failed (app crashed), we increased the
frequency at which a non-leader contacts the cloud _if_ he can't hear
from the leader. This basically lead to a flood of messages up to the
cloud and back from it rejecting the leader request because as far as
the cloud knows, it's still hearing hearbeats from the real leader.

In terms of actual numbers, there were about ~ 600 request-reject
cycles in the DIPLOMA app. That's 600 odd cloud accesses. The Camera
Cloud version had only about 390 such request-response cycles to the
Cloud. So DIPLOMA actually ended up contacting the cloud way more
often than Camera Cloud. Now, we probably still _may_ (not really
sure) win in terms of number of bytes transferred because DIPLOMA's
request reject cycles were smaller packets while Camera Cloud's
transactions were larger ones with the photo itself.

But, and this is the critical thing, even without calculating, we do
MUCH worse power wise. This is because , from Jason's measurements,
the 4G power profile has a large intercept and small slope. In other
words, the mere fact that you are transmitting a packet consumes more
energy which dwarfs the effect of the packet size. So, to a first
order, packet size is irrelevant. So, DIPLOMA incurs Cloud
request-reject cycles and Camera Cloud incurs only 390. So Camera
Cloud is already doing better. But, this is without including
DIPLOMA's wifi power consumption. If we throw that in, the numbers get
much worse.

We also looked at the second experiment's logs where the 3G nexus
phones were stationary. The number of leader request-reject cycles was
much lower ie 49. So, there I guess we still win, though we don't have
numbers yet. The overall summary is that the 4G results are kind of
unusable due to a combination of mobility and bad wifi. We can run it
again in a better region if you think it will add to the overall story
of the paper.

==========

Li Shiuan:

If the 3G foodspotter power numbers are ok, we can use just 3G for this paper. N we just need a short subsection w summary of results, even just text is ok since we are so tight on space. The earlier 3G synthetic benchmark will stay as the main results.

If not, let's redo the deployment w smaller regions, in a diff area w less wifi interference.

============

Niket:

Interesting. The 3 missed heartbeat timeout is really adhoc. Ideally, the non-leaders should exponentially back-off and increase their tolerance to dropped heartbeats when they find out from the cloud server that the leader is alive, but the network is spotty. 

Agree that we should present only the 3G experiments if we are crunched for space. 


============

Anirudh:

I think this was a systematic problem with the ad hoc in that area
over fairly longish time scales. At one point, we tried pinging
between two phones that were 2 metres apart with nothing else in the
vicinity. It still didn't work. So exp backoff is likely to work if
this is a random noise issue but I think it was a more systematic one.


